hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions on July 17th 2019
NASA stem engagement tweeted out this
emoji math puzzle to celebrate the 50th
anniversary of landing on the moon if
you solve this problem you will also get
the year in the 1900s in which all three
Apollo 11 astronauts were born pause the
video if you'd like to give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
now before I get to the answer I just
want to mention that since 2016 I posted
about two similar type problems per year
and there are some of my most popular
videos I wanted to mention this because
I think you'll enjoy solving these
problems too so how can we solve NASA's
puzzle let's first substitute letters
for the emojis we'll write a for
astronaut M for moon R for rocket and E
for Eagle
we now convert this puzzle into math
equations the first line states that a
plus M is equal to 45 we then have a
plus R is equal to 32 R times E is equal
to 14 and M times E is equal to 40 we
want to solve for a times e minus M
let's get started with these two
equations in fact let's swap these two
equations and we'll subtract the second
one from the first we get e multiplied
by the quantity M minus R is equal to 26
well put this equation to the side and
now we'll consider these two equations
let's subtract the second equation from
the first this will cancel out the
variable a we then have n minus R is
equal to 13 and this is good because we
can substitute this into the equation e
multiplied by M minus R is equal to 26
we then get a multiplied by 13 is equal
to 26 which means E is equal to 2 from
here we'll be able to solve for the rest
of the variables very quickly from the
equation M times E is equal to 40 we can
deduce that M is equal to 20 and from a
plus M is equal to 45 we can get that a
is equal to 25 so now we need to solve
for the value of a times e minus M we
have 25 times 2 minus 20 we also need to
remember the order of operations that
multiplication takes precedence so 25
times 2 is equal to 50 and then 50 minus
20 is a
equal to 30 and that's the answer so we
go back to the puzzle and we get the
answer of 30 which means all three
astronauts were born in 1930 this is a
great puzzle and it'll also help people
remember which year Neil Armstrong Buzz
Aldrin and Michael Collins were born in
thanks NASA for sharing this fun emoji
math puzzle thanks for watching and for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube thanks for
watching and thanks for your support
[Music]